source/doc-pages/learn/basics/write.md, before:

# Writing Simple Records

Writing records to a persistence solution is done through Commands. Commands are objects that encapsulate 
datastore-specific modification operations. They receive a relation and execute their operation using that 
relation.

ROM adapters must provide three basic Command types:

* `ROM::Commands::Create`
* `ROM::Commands::Update`
* `ROM::Commands::Delete`

Some adapters provide more for special operations - see your adapter’s documentation for details. 

##Defining Commands
In your setup, define available commands with the `commands` statement, passing it a symbol of the relation's name:

```ruby
require 'rom-repository'

# Assumes a database with a users table 
ROM.container(:sql, 'sqlite::memory') do |rom|
   # Remember that many adapters can infer relations, so we can often skip defining it. 
   # Otherwise, add something like:
   #
   # rom.relation(:users)

   rom.commands(:users) do
      # declares that we can create, update, and delete users. 
      define(:create)
      define(:update)
      define(:delete)
   end
end
```

####Single Results vs Many Results
Ordinarily, a command will return an `Array` of `ROM::Struct` results. You can customize this to return a single result 
by supplying `result :one` to the command definition. 

```ruby
ROM.container(:sql, 'sqlite::memory') do |rom|
   rom.commands(:users) do
      define(:create) do
         result :one
      end

      # ... etc
   end
end
```

##Running Commands
Every registered command is accessible through the environment container:

```ruby
rom_container = ROM.container(:sql, 'sqlite::memory') do |rom|
   rom.commands(:users) do
      define(:create)
   end
end


# fetch the command object by type 
create_user = rom_container.command(:users).create

# a command object won’t do anything until it’s called with input tuples:
new_users = [
  { name: 'Jane' },
  { name: 'Joe' }
]

create_user.call(new_users) # saves the users
```

<aside class="well">
These are just simple writes. See the <a href="/learn/associations">Associations</a> section to see how to write nested 
models. 
 </aside>
 
 
##Full Example
This short example demonstrates defining and using the three basic commands.
 
```ruby
# app.rb
class MyApp
   def self.run(rom_container)
      user_commands = rom_container.command(:users)

      # Create...
      user = user_commands.create.call(first_name: 'Natalia', last_name: 'Romanova')

      puts rom_container.relation(:users).to_a.inspect
      # => [{:first_name=>"Natalia", :last_name=>"Romanova"}]

      # Update...
      user_commands.update.by_id(user[:id]).call(first_name: 'Natasha', last_name: 'Romanoff')
      
      puts rom_container.relation(:users).to_a.inspect
      # => [{:first_name=>"Natasha", :last_name=>"Romanoff"}]

      # And Delete!
      user_commands.delete.by_id(user[:id]).call()

      puts rom_container.relation(:users).to_a.inspect
      # => []
   end
end
```

```ruby
# command_demo.rb
require 'rom-sql'

# Assumes a database with a users table
rom_container = ROM.container(:memory) do |rom|
   rom.use :macros

   rom.relation(:users) do
      def by_id(id)
         restrict(id: id)
      end
   end

   rom.commands(:users) do
      define(:create) do
         result :one
      end

      define(:update)

      define(:delete)
   end
end

MyApp.run(rom_container)
```

Run it and see the three states print out. 

```bash
ruby command_demo.rb
```

Commit message:

Added update and delete selection details

source/doc-pages/learn/basics/write.md, after:

# Writing Simple Records

Writing records to a persistence solution is done through Commands. Commands are objects that encapsulate 
datastore-specific modification operations. They receive a relation and execute their operation using that 
relation.

ROM adapters must provide three basic Command types:

* `ROM::Commands::Create`
* `ROM::Commands::Update`
* `ROM::Commands::Delete`

Some adapters provide more for special operations - see your adapter’s documentation for details. 

##Defining Commands
In your setup, define available commands with the `commands` statement, passing it a symbol of the relation's name:

```ruby
require 'rom-repository'

# Assumes a database with a users table 
ROM.container(:sql, 'sqlite::memory') do |rom|
   # Remember that many adapters can infer relations, so we can often skip defining it. 
   # Otherwise, add something like:
   #
   # rom.relation(:users)

   rom.commands(:users) do
      # declares that we can create, update, and delete users. 
      define(:create)
      define(:update)
      define(:delete)
   end
end
```

####Single Results vs Many Results
Ordinarily, a command will return an `Array` of `ROM::Struct` results. You can customize this to return a single result 
by supplying `result :one` to the command definition. 

```ruby
ROM.container(:sql, 'sqlite::memory') do |rom|
   rom.commands(:users) do
      define(:create) do
         result :one
      end

      # ... etc
   end
end
```

##Running Commands
Every registered command is accessible through the environment container:

```ruby
rom_container = ROM.container(:sql, 'sqlite::memory') do |rom|
   rom.commands(:users) do
      define(:create)
   end
end


# fetch the command object by type 
create_user = rom_container.command(:users).create

# a command object won’t do anything until it’s called with input tuples:
new_users = [
  { name: 'Jane' },
  { name: 'Joe' }
]

create_user.call(new_users) # saves the users
```

Commands are backed by a relation, which you can use to specify which records to Update or Delete. 

```ruby
# operate on a single result 
rom_container.command(:users).delete.by_id(2).call()

# or many
rom_container.command(:users).delete.matching_attributes(first_name: 'Lawrence').call()

# update is the same, and takes the new data as a parameter to #call 
rom_container.command(:users).update.by_id(7).call(first_name: 'Kaylee', last_name: 'Frye')
```

<aside class="well">
These are just simple writes. See the <a href="/learn/associations">Associations</a> section to see how to write nested 
models. 
 </aside>
 
 
##Full Example
This short example demonstrates defining and using the three basic commands.
 
```ruby
# app.rb
class MyApp
   def self.run(rom_container)
      user_commands = rom_container.command(:users)

      # Create...
      user = user_commands.create.call(first_name: 'Natalia', last_name: 'Romanova')

      puts rom_container.relation(:users).to_a.inspect
      # => [{:first_name=>"Natalia", :last_name=>"Romanova"}]

      # Update...
      user_commands.update.by_id(user[:id]).call(first_name: 'Natasha', last_name: 'Romanoff')
      
      puts rom_container.relation(:users).to_a.inspect
      # => [{:first_name=>"Natasha", :last_name=>"Romanoff"}]

      # And Delete!
      user_commands.delete.by_id(user[:id]).call()

      puts rom_container.relation(:users).to_a.inspect
      # => []
   end
end
```

```ruby
# command_demo.rb
require 'rom-sql'

# Assumes a database with a users table
rom_container = ROM.container(:memory) do |rom|
   rom.use :macros

   rom.relation(:users) do
      def by_id(id)
         restrict(id: id)
      end
   end

   rom.commands(:users) do
      define(:create) do
         result :one
      end

      define(:update)

      define(:delete)
   end
end

MyApp.run(rom_container)
```

Run it and see the three states print out. 

```bash
ruby command_demo.rb
```
